A brave life is basically
15 freaking hard conversations a day.
[Music]
Most academics don't become global
celebrities, but that's what happened to
Bnee Brown after her TEDex talk in 2010
went viral.
>> My mission to control and predict had
turned up the answer that the way to
live is with vulnerability.
>> Brown has since become a guru of sorts
for millions of people around the world.
In her books, podcasts, and TV specials,
she dares her audiences to, in her
words, rumble with vulnerability, or get
comfortable with the uncomfortable. Now,
Brown's focusing on the world of
corporate leadership with a new book
called Strong Ground. So, how should
leaders rumble in this moment of intense
technological and cultural change in the
workplace? Here's my conversation with
Bnee Brown.
Bnee,
you are known for your work. Wait,
actually before we get started, where
are you in the world?
>> In Austin.
>> In Austin. It looks very Austin. Um,
I've got to say the decor. It's very
nice. Is that Is that your home?
>> It is.
>> Um, you are known for your work sort of
mapping, explaining human emotions um,
and especially around shame,
vulnerability. You're also at this
moment though a leadership consultant
who brings like those ideas to various
workplaces from the NFL to the military
to the Fortune 500.
And one of the things that I wanted to
talk to you about today
is
the enormous amount of change that we're
seeing
>> politically
>> at work. Um, in every way imaginable, we
are
in just these extraordinary times that
are very unsettling for me and I think
pretty much everybody.
>> Oo, I don't trust an un I don't trust a
settled person right now.
>> Tell me what that means.
>> If you're I mean like if if you're not
unsettled, you're not paying attention.
Like that that would be the first
correlation as a researcher. Like we
work toward feeling grounded, but we're
in a tempest right now. like this is
this is a maelstrom of craziness and
unpredictability and volatility and
instability and it's disorienting
and so I don't think that feeling
unsettled or feeling disoriented
means
that there's something wrong with you.
I think it means in very technical
skills
that you probably have some level of
critical thinking skills, anticipatory
thinking skills,
emotional awareness. I think it's a good
sign to feel unsettled right now. The
question is how do you get tethered?
>> You've written a new book. It's called
strong ground and that's basically the
idea behind it which is that we need to
center ourselves at a moment of great
change. Can you tell me why that became
something that you wanted to engage with
corporate leadership because it's not
necessarily obvious how women and shame
in your early work relates to leadership
and fortune 500 companies.
>> When you study the intersection of
emotion,
behavior, and thinking, you can apply it
pretty much anywhere. And so after the
TED talk on vulnerability, this is
weird. After the TED talk on
vulnerability went viral,
>> which it did, this is in 2010. Um,
>> right. And the first phone calls I
started to get after it went viral were
from leadersh
>> saying, "We think there's a lot of
application in what you're talking about
in our work. Can you come talk to us?"
So
I started a leadership study and that
was all I needed. I was like, "Wow."
When you ask leaders who are doing
really important work,
corporate, nonprofit, military, sports,
what's getting in the way? And the
answer across every single industry is
courage. We won't have hard
conversations.
We don't hold people accountable. We
shame and blame them. You know, like I
was like, "Oh, I can do this. I I know
how to do this." For me, this whole
crazy path makes a ton of sense. In the
end, at work, we're just people. And if
I was going to find an intervention
point in which I think I can make the
biggest difference in every area that I
care about, this is it.
>> Explain that to me. Tell me why why
leaders are important. why talking to
leaders um is is an important thing to
do in a company and and why you've
focused your work on that.
>> We spend more than half of our life at
work. I've never met
a content person
who is working under a shitty leader. I
always give this advice to people
actually when they come to me and I say
um if they ask me whether they should
take this job or that job and I always
say who's going to be your boss, who's
the leader? Um because that's going to
determine if you get promoted, if you're
happy um more than even the job title,
the salary, what you're doing,
are you working for someone that you
like and respect and will help you? cuz
if you're not, it doesn't matter how
good the job is. Uh on paper, it's not
going to make you happy and it's not
going to get you to where you want to
go. Is that kind of what you mean?
Like I could almost cry when to hear you
say that. Do you know how rare it is to
hear from someone you look up to what
you just said?
No one says it. For you and me, party at
two. like and that's exactly what I'm
talking about.
That is exactly what I'm talking about.
And let me tell you, I define a leader
as anyone who holds themselves
responsible for finding the potential in
people and processes and has the courage
to develop that potential. I have been
in sea
of Fortune 100 companies
and not seen a leader among them. and I
have been on factory floors and been
surrounded by leaders.
So to me,
leadership
is
about skills building. It's about
self-awareness, understanding who you
are because who you are is how you lead.
And then it's skill set. You know, just
because
you have experience and subject matter
expertise,
just because more likely
you knew the right person doesn't mean
you have the skills to lead.
>> I want to get to the heart of the
matter, which is that this moment is
different. You know, like a lot of
people in every industry, I personally
am feeling overwhelmed by the pace of
change. Um, you know, one of the things
that I noticed, uh, in your new book
about halfway through, you quote Amy
Webb, a CEO and NYU professor who
studies the future basically. Um, and
she described this moment as a super
cycle of unprecedented change. And I
have to tell you, I was
I really thought about that one. But
what does that look like inside
companies? because this massive disrupt
disruption
>> um all this new technology that
companies have available to them um I
mean I imagine it's first of all how
they're supposed to use it and then how
to train people on it. I mean
what does that look like inside a
workplace
at this moment where it just feels like
everything is up in the air?
>> It looks like a complete [__] show. What
it looks like is scarcity. We're not
doing enough. We don't know enough. We
don't have enough people trained. We're
not investing enough. Um, this is what
everyone's This is what everyone's doing
and we're behind. So, it looks like fear
and scarcity
driving huge investments in AI that are
not even aligned with business strategy.
>> So, in this moment of sort of profound
change, what is a good leader then? So a
good leader
to me right now
is a leader
who understands urgency
but is working from productive urgency.
Who is not like my grandma would say,
you know, this terrible saying, but
chicken with your head cut off urgency.
And we're seeing a lot of that, but
productive strategic urgency, you know,
action over impact is so dangerous. And
right now we're seeing a ton of action
over impact as companies try to
integrate this technology. And right now
this month
we are starting to see some devastating
numbers around really poor ROI
>> in terms investment.
>> Yeah. return on investment in terms of
what companies are investing in AI
because they're, you know, they're
coming in operationally
and making decisions and not
strategically. They're not understanding
how to bring people along, how to use it
in smart ways, where it will work, where
it will not work. Linda Hall, Harvard
Business School professor, researcher,
studies digital transformation. love
this work for. She's just brilliant. She
will tell you the hardest thing about
digital transformation, never the
technology, always the people. Then you
add to that, you're talking about this
super cycle, absolute geopolitical
instability
around the world.
Leader, you know, leaders were wake up
and
depending on the tariff fever dream of
the night before by this administration,
everything has changed.
So geopolitics,
then you have
what we talked about first, technology
super cycles.
Next you have radically shifting
marketplaces
>> because consumers are changing. We're
changing.
You know, we don't, you know, I'm
talking to people who are economists
that are mentioning mayonnaise jars
again for the first time. Do you put
your money in the market? Do you not put
your money in the market? So, so there's
complete instability economically,
there's markets instability technology,
geopolitical instability,
and I'm not going to downplay
the complexity of intergenerational
workplaces.
>> I mean, some of these forces are largely
out of the control of leaders of
companies.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I would say the majority
of them are out of the control. But what
is in your control? Have you ever
watched like five or six year olds play
soccer?
>> Sadly, yes.
>> I know for sure that you have by your
answer. Um, you know, like you like, you
know, the ball leaves the field and like
my daughter's sitting criss-cross
applesauce making daisy chains, you
know, like um, one of the things that's
really interesting is when you watch
little kids play soccer, a kick will
come into a kid at like chess level and
they won't settle the ball, look down
the pitch, and decide where it needs to
go next. What they'll do is they'll just
raise their foot up over their head and
try to kick that ball back about that
high. A good leader
takes the incoming in churn and
instability,
settles the ball, takes a breath,
creates some space and time where none
exists,
looks down the pitch and makes a smart
decision about where to kick the ball
next.
>> So, how does that connect with your
older ideas around compassion, empathy,
vulnerability? I mean, are those things
still necessary in those moments?
Because I get why it makes us better
humans, but why does it make us better
leaders?
>> Because when you raise your foot up
shoulder height and kick a ball, you
have no control where it goes. It's not
strategic. It's reactionary. It's not a
response. Um, so the answer to your
question is, I have my team working
really hard toward a project and I just
found out from my boss it's been
depprioritized. I pull them together and
what does compassion in that moment look
like? And what does vulnerability and
humanity look like in that moment? And I
say,
I want to start by saying how grateful I
am for the work you've been doing
and that it was important work and work
we were asked to do and asked to do well
and I counted on you for that and you
delivered. I found out this morning that
this initiative due to
whatever a supply chain issue, a change
in strategic priority has shifted and
we're being asked to change direction.
And I don't want to just throw
everything at you. I want to take a
minute
and I want to acknowledge
the amount of cognitive and emotional
energy it takes to walk away from good
work and start new work. and I want to
check in with you about it.
>> I'm listening to you and I'm nodding and
I'm going, "Yeah, that sounds really
good." Um, but I also
see that
that kind of leadership seems to have
fallen out of the zeitgeist.
You know, the companies that are some of
the most valuable in this era are tech
companies who aren't exactly known for
their people- centered leadership uh
anymore. And that sort of shift away
from appearing empathetic um to trying
to understand, you know, the other side
of what of of people's experience
that doesn't seem to be as as popular
anymore in the era of the Elon Musk
style of leadership where you can go in,
you can fire a bunch of people, and you
can still have a productive company.
Some would argue even more productive.
One, what's in the zeitgeist and not in
the zeitgeist
is of very little interest to me
personally.
Democracy is not in the zeitgeist right
now either. I'm still a firm believer in
it. Number two, we collect data on
everything we do. We see a very
compelling, persuasive,
strong correlation
between
courageous and daring leadership and
performance
as measured by the way companies measure
performance. Whether that's quarterly
stock price, whether that's retention,
whether that's engagement. Um,
we have I have zero doubt
that
just because the world
at large believes
that you have to be a total dick to get
performance out of a team.
There is actually very little evidence
of that over a long period of time.
zero. One of the things I think is
interesting
is leading by fear
as a catalyst can really
result in very fast perform very quick
performance metrics.
They're not sustainable for a really
easy reason. I think a simple reason.
Fear has a very short shelf life
and in order to maintain fear
as a leadership tool or power over
rather than power with and power to
Mary Parker Fullet's work social worker
early management scholar you know she
talks about power over
power with power to power within in
order to lead
from power over using fear, humiliation.
You have to
demonstrate a capacity for cruelty
at very regular intervals
because of the short shelf life that
fear has in people.
So, you can't keep me afraid forever.
But if periodically you can demonstrate
cruelty and a capacity for it, that will
rekindle my fear. I think people are
becoming less and less tolerant
of living that way.
And I think we have a new generation of
people who won't work that way.
>> Well, that's interesting because there
is a responsiveness I think to culture
and the zeitgeist. And a specific
example
I think of the way culture has changed
is we've seen companies across the
spectrum for example get rid of their
DEI programs that were meant to be about
inclusivity, belonging. They adopted
them in response to another cultural
moment right in 2020
>> and now because things have changed
they've
apparently decided that it doesn't help
them anymore. And I guess I'm I wonder
if the embrace of a lot of these
management and leadership humanity
trainings are only performative. That
they are there simply to respond to
forces outside of their control, but
they're not really about doing the work
that you say is necessary.
>> Heck yes. Yes. Absolutely. Some are and
some are not. If we want to talk about
DEI programs specifically,
>> it's an example though I think one
people have noted an important example.
Did some companies adopt DEI
and
exploit it,
use it as a part of their brand and then
the minute they were told
to get rid of it, they got rid of it
without thinking twice about it. I I
think that's for sure. Did I see DEI
programs function
in meaningful way? You know, DEI
programs are not they're they're just
that would you know they were developed
and when done well they were just
meritocracy programs.
That's what a good DEI program is just a
meritocracy program. It's just a program
to make sure
that the invisible
program of favoritism and bias was being
checked. This is not an administration
that's a fan of meritocracy. Um, so the
two things I think we have to recognize
about the zeitgeist
is
when you have an administration,
if you let's say you're the CEO
and
You have an administration saying you'll
get rid of this
or
you'll lose every contract that touches
the government, any federal or state
dollars,
and you know that that means that you'll
need to lay off 35,000 people.
I don't know that people are choosing to
get rid of their DEI programs. I would
be comfortable enough to say that any
leader that props up or folds something
that's good for their people
and effective and helps make their
people feel more connected and seen and
also drives performance
which is a leader's job whether they're
in an NGO or nonprofit or for-profit or
government military sport doesn't matter
is a pretty terrible leader. So, I'm
listening to you talk and it is this
very difficult moment. Uh, you keep on
bringing something up though that I do
think is really interesting, which are
the generational differences that we're
seeing in the workplace and how
different generations view work and what
work is supposed to do and what work
isn't supposed to do. Can you just
expand on that a little? What you've
seen and what and what your thinking
around that is? I I do think
there is
complexity, organizational complexity
in intergenerational work. I think we're
different. I think that, you know, we're
we're we were raised differently. We
have different ideas about, you know,
what successes and um
I think there's something to learn from
each generation. I think each generation
has real strengths in a workplace and
possibly some deficits. I I do get
nervous talking about swaths of people
like generations, but I also think it's
there's some truth to it. So, I'll try
to balance that. Um I I'm a Gen X person
who's raised 10, you know, two Gen Z
folks. Um,
I think we did
some good things and I think we did some
not great things raising that gener. I
mean, like it's like when people like
start, you know, really dogging on
um, Gen Z. It makes me laugh because
it's usually the exact people who raised
them. Um, so I think I always like
>> it's a good point,
>> you know, self-indictment, but I think
that we wanted to make sure
that our kids didn't have all of our
experiences, the that the traumatic hard
ones, and somewhere along the way, we
confuse trauma with adversity.
And adversity is really good for kids,
and trauma is not good for us. Um, and
so I do think there's a little bit of
that. So, let's be clear about that. I
think what I've noticed about Gen Z,
they're not doing anything without the
why.
Like, this is this is like the
generation, my generation that was grown
up, we grew up with like cuz I said so
getting really frustrated with a
generation that said, "I don't why are
we doing it that way?" Like, what what
what is that? Why is that going to be
helpful? And you know, people my age are
looking for a little yes, chef action,
like got it on it. Um, no, these these
kids are not interested. They want to
know the why. I like it because when you
give them the why through your gritted
teeth, they're like, "Let me So, let me
play back what you're saying, Lulu. You
want me to get this data for you by 3:00
this afternoon because you're going to
use it in a meeting with these people.
Is that right?" And you're like, "Yes,
damn it." And they're like, "I think
you're asking for the wrong data, dude.
you need, bruh, you need a whole
different set of data if that's what
you're trying to do at 5:00 and then
that's helpful, you know, and so um what
would be
really good task conflict that leads to
innovation and ideiation and smart
things with the right skills, it's
amazing. The problem is without the
right skills, task conflict becomes
emotional conflict and then people don't
like each other. They blame each other.
they're having meetings outside the
meetings. Uh you know, all the stuff
that just tears teams and organizations
apart. It's a lack of skill
to straddle tension and stay in it and
be productive with it. That's the
problem, not the generations.
>> Well, I mean, this brings me to I think
one of the central themes in your work
um about work, which is communication,
right? How we talk to each other. What
are we what are we doing when we're
having these um discussions?
Uh, and as a fellow communicator, I
think about this a lot because
ultimately communication is about
building trust, bringing people along.
Why do you think we suck at it?
From from the New York Times journalist,
you know why we suck at it? Good
communication
is a skill
that's based in
clarity.
discipline and accountability.
>> I'm thinking about those three words,
clarity, discipline, and accountability.
>> Yes.
>> Walk me through them.
>> So, first of all, good communication is
vulnerable.
It's hard. You have to have a tolerance
for discomfort
if you want to communicate well and
honestly.
And that's at every level in an
organization, in a family, it doesn't
matter. A brave life is basically
15 freaking hard conversations a day. So
it's vulnerable and scary and it's and
so that's part of it. Then we talk about
clarity. Clarity
of what we want to say, economy of
words, using the right words to describe
what we want to do and what we want,
what we mean, what we need. Discipline.
Checking an email three times. picking
up a phone instead of sending a text
because tone is lost on text and it
doesn't work. Accountability.
You say, "Wow, Bernie, that was a really
shitty thing to say."
And I said,
"Yeah, that was my intention.
I'm pissed." Or, "God, that was not my
intention. I apologize. I can see how it
landed that way."
That's accountability, you know. And
then I think behaviorally no one's
taught how to do that. We don't teach
people
how to communicate well. I mean we we
operate from an axium clear is kind,
unclear unkind. So
I think communication
has never been more important than it is
right now. H um we have only a little
bit of time left and I wanted to ask you
a little bit about the changes that
you've seen in the industry within which
you work because as I was thinking about
your career, you know, you came up in
2010 and you have sort of ridden this
enormous boom in
people looking for guidance and help in
the way that they um should live their
lives and interact with other people and
I don't know how you feel about the
label of self-help being applied to your
work uh outside of your work with
companies but you are definitely sort of
one of the earliest practitioners of a
very online strain of personal
improvement content that's still very
very popular
though most people practicing it don't
have your credentials how do you look at
the evolution of that world in the last
15 years
>> [__] I almost escaped this whole thing
without having to go here.
>> Almost. You get the A+ in communication,
Lulu. Um, okay. I think
that there are a lot of well-meaning,
well-intentioned, well-trained people in
that space. And I think they make up
about 30% of that space. I think there
are 30% of the people who want to be in
that space or trying to be in that kind
of self-improvement wellness space
who are
underqualified
thoughtful
sometimes helpful often
benign and I think there are 40%
sheer grifters and everything they say
is it's predatory advice giving I think
depending on who you'd ask people could
put me in different categories there
depending on what they think about what
I'm saying I've always been try to been
be very very careful
um when I was when I was in that space
there was a moment
when I made a very very
specific tactical get the hell out dodge
decision
to not be anywhere near that space.
>> And that was when my sisters and I were
caregiving for my mom with dementia.
And when I found myself
bombarded
by posts that would say things like
caregiving for a parent with dementia,
starting to wonder about your own
memory.
A tablespoon of castor oil will change
your life. find yourself devastated by
your own parents' cognitive decline,
our four brain teasers will ensure this
never happens to you. And my first
reaction to that was, "Fuck you." No,
no, no. That was my second reaction. My
first reaction is, I'll take it. I'll
buy it. What are you selling? Let me do
it. That was my first reaction. And I
realized that I would see clips of
myself come up on Instagram where the
clip had been cut such that it was kind
of provocative
and advice giving and conveyed a
certainty that the first half of my
answer was like look I'm not sure or I
don't study that area or you know we
can't draw causal lines here but then
the clip would be this and I was like I
can't be a part of
like I cannot be a part of this and I
absolutely do not
want to participate
in
overwhelming people who I don't know
with what they believe is advice that
they should take. I just don't think
it's I don't think it's that's not who I
am.
>> So explain to me practically speaking
what that shift then means. I mean what
do you do differently that you might
have not done before as you were coming
into this?
>> I'm interested in different discussions.
I'm interested in talking about
leadership. I'm interested in talking
about how organizations function. I'm
interested in talking about more macro
topics. I think I'm just figuring it
out. I was walking I was with Adam Grant
somewhere and I said and he's a good
friend and we were talking about our
careers and they're very much the same
would you think a little bit or would
you say like we do the same kind of work
in companies?
>> Yeah.
>> And he said I don't understand like why
you're careful
about walking down the street or going
into this thing. And I said I I think my
experience is different than yours. And
we walked like four blocks through this
like conference area. And in that time,
six people came up to me. Three of them
were crying,
you know, and he's like, "This is not my
experience in my life." And he said,
"And when you get attacked for something
you say,
it's not it doesn't look and feel like
the attacks." And I said, "What are you
saying?" And he's like, "We got a big
fat gender issue here." And I said, "You
think so?" And he goes, "Yeah." He's
like, "This is"
and so I think that's still really at
play. He goes to the UK and it's like
thought leader researcher Adam Grant
arrives to talk to people at Canary
Wararf. I think the headline when I got
to the UK said the queen of self-help
arrives in London. It's just I don't see
myself the way the world sees me. I
think it was during the pandemic
Texas Monthly
I write about this in the book. Texas
Monthly, you know, I mean, the New York
Times is the same way. They can
interview, you have no control over what
the headline is or anything else like
that, and you're always like, "Oh, it's
[__] What's going to happen?" And of
course, the head the cover, it was a
cover story on me. And there was a
couple things about it that were like
just for me really hard. And I love
Texas Monthly, but it said how Bnee
Brown became America's therapist. And
I'm like,
what? I've been always clear. I'm not a
mental health practitioner.
I respect that work, admire that work. I
have a therapist. I'm not a therapist.
And I don't want to be your therapist or
anybody's therapist. And so I think I've
just drawn a very hard line around where
I think I can make a contribution
and where I can't. Yeah, that's it.
[Music]